well howdy there internet people it's
beau again so that Nike video that went
a little bit wider than I expected a lot
of people saw it that I didn't count on
I was supposed to be a joke for you guys
that normally watch this didn't count on
the extra couple hundred thousand people
seeing them but I'm glad they did
because you know they don't know the way
I talk they don't know that I intend to
switch what I'm talking about in the
middle of a video so a lot of them saw
the first few seconds took off the
comment sections started insulting me
it's all okay was all worth it because
one guy and his insults got me thinking
and I had time to think about it cuz I
was coming back from coming back from
town that's like 40 minute drive the
insult was that I was my IQ was two
points higher than a plant and that I
needed to ask if I could open my hick
mind and understand what it was like to
be a black person in the United States
no I can't neither can you neither can
you
I know right now there's some white ally
out there learning the terminology but
that's a no I understand no you don't
you may you may get the statistics you
may understand the numbers you may get
that you know there there's a huge
disparity in the criminal justice system
and because of that it translates into
more unjust violence of being visited
upon them you may get that you may
understand that there's a huge income
equality gap you may and you may get
that that translates into the lower
standard of living lower health care you
may understand all of that that mean you
understand what it's like to be black in
the u.s. means you get the numbers maybe
you understand a little bit of the
history see is way deeper than that
because you know when we think about
slavery we think about the the physical
costs of slavery and they're horrible no
doubt but I think today what's more
relevant is something else
where are you from not in the US
were you people from odds are if you're
white you know Ireland Scotland England
Germany Italy Greece France where you
from and based on your answer I can tell
you all kinds of things about you I can
tell you whether your gravy is red brown
or white I can tell you what kind of
booze you probably drink tell you what
kind of food you eat tell you what cuss
words you use translates into a lot of
things the values you instill in your
kids the jokes you tell the biases you
have my kids four years old
he's four years old if I look at him and
I say who he's gonna go up the rock now
if you're Irish you just laughed
your anglish probably got a little mad
because that's part of your cultural
identity if you're not even one of those
you have no idea what that means four
years old kid doesn't know where Ireland
is cooking point to that on map but it's
already starting to get ingrained in him
he's already being able to take pride in
that cultural identity why don't we have
Bantu pride Congolese pride why don't
have that see the sociologists you know
they like to point to black pride and
say oh well it's a healing endeavor so
you know black people can get together
and they you know they they can join in
that struggle that's a cop-out that is a
cop-out that's a whitewash of the
reality the reality is that slavery
ripped that from them they have black
pride because they don't know I don't
know
it wasn't in the slave owners interest
to keep track of the cultural heritage
of his property so that cultural
identity that shapes you it does think
about it think about how much of what
you are as a person is linked to your
your heritage like that stripped away
gone and it got replaced it got replaced
you know down here in the South
especially out in the country you don't
do a black kitchen somebody he's gonna
know how to cook hog trials and chitlins
pigs feet sit down here that scene is
black cuisine that didn't come from
Africa not the way pasta or shepherd's
pie came with us that came from the
plantations that's what the slave owner
threw away and left at me they endured
that for so long it became part of their
culture
thank you heard for so long they got
good at found a way to make it flavorful
no I can't understand what it's like to
be black in the u.s. I can't understand
what it's like to have my cultural
identity stripped away and replaced with
the knowledge that when my granddad was
a kid people didn't think he was human
or that what is seen is my cuisine
it's because we got good cooking trash
that's gonna affect a people a
collective people on a very deep level
you know when you say get over it we're
a long way away from that we're a long
way from getting over slavery yeah
physical scars they feel they have
cultural ones you're still there because
it's gone we stripped away just vanished
in the air I really want you to think
about how much of who you are as a
person comes from the old country and
then imagine what it would be like if
you didn't have that and if what it was
replaced with wasn't love with the red
white and blue cuz the red white and
blue didn't love you it wasn't that long
ago guys there are people alive today
dealt with the dealt with some pretty
horrible stuff and it's getting better
but it's not solved
that that problems ongoing and it's
gonna stay ongoing for a while you know
I've seen people say that they're not
african-american that they're just
American I love it good for you I cannot
wait until the day comes when all of us
just leave those national identities
behind and we're just people but that's
a long way off and until then we're
gonna have to address our history and
while we may find it uncomfortable to
address our history because we don't
like it we don't like the things that
our people did understand there some
people don't know theirs
they don't have that source of pride to
reach back to I actually think that's
why I had that black panther movie did
so well because it's just just like you
know just like every every European
ethnicity has that origin myth you know
I gave them that so it's just a thought
it's something to think about when you
have convinced yourself as a white
person that you truly understand what
it's like take a step back
it goes a lot further than to have
heaven to have a talk with your kids
about how to deal with cops
your entire cultural identity was ripped
away anyway y'all have a nice night
thanks for the insult is it it gave me
something to think about